---
layout: post
title: The Desk
date: 2017-09-06
tags: 
    - Ergonomics
---

The most basic and important part of your work setup is your desk. Without the proper desk setup, it doesn’t matter what type of keyboard or mouse you have if you can’t be in the correct position. 

## Movement is Key
The most important thing about spending an extended period of time doing a task is that you do not stay in a single position for an extended period of time.  Humans are meant to move. A good rule of thumb that ergonomists might tell you is to change positions at least every 25 min. 

With this fact in mind, the best thing you can do for your desk setup is to have a desk that can change positions. There are a different options ranging from moderately expensive to very expensive. Here are the options I would recommend from cheapest to most expensive. Each option is not only more expensive but much more functional.

It is also important that you are in proper posture in each position you are in for an extended period of time. This is similar for sitting and standing, but can be quite different leaning back and lying down. Please refer to my  post for more information on proper positioning of your body, workstation, and input devices. 

## Cheapest Option
I wouldn’t really recommend this, but if you really want to save money, you can try to build a piece of hardware that sits on top of your desk that lets your monitor and input devices rest at proper standing height. Then, you can manually move the devices on and off your hardware piece when switching between sitting and standing heights. The most practical way of using this would be with a laptop, but it’s not a very easy option. This means you will not get much use out of it, because it will be too difficult to change positions. This means you’ll be less likely to do it often like you should. 

## Easiest Option
Assuming you already have a desk, the simplest, and least expensive option for you to be able to change positions is to get a device that goes on top of a standard desk, and changes between sitting and standing heights. This allows you to switch positions throughout the day fairly easily, which is the most important thing. 

The downsides are that it’s an additional component on top of the desk, meaning it will look less appealing than other options. Also, there is often not as much adjustability. It is also no possible to save your favorite positions. This makes it more difficult to ensure you are in proper posture in each position each time you move. 

If you are not able to spend much money, I highly recommend purchasing at least one of these options rather than sticking with just a standard seated desk. 

There are 3 companies that I know of that have products in this category:
1. [VariDesk](www.varidesk.com "VariDesk")
2. [UpDesk](https://www.myupdesk.com/products#Desktop-Workstations "UpDesk Desktop Workstations")
2. [Ergotron](www.ergotron.com)

## Best Economical Option
The best option if you have a decent budget is to get a sit-stand desk. These desks look like a standard desk but have controls to move the desk vertically up and down. This way, you can easily sit or stand throughout the day. 

There are 2 things that are most important to consider when purchasing a sit-stand desk:
1. Make it easy to move between positions
2. Make it easy to come back to the proper positions

In order to satisfy these 2 requirements, I recommend getting a desk with 2 important characteristics:
1. An electronic control with a motor (as opposed to a hand crank)
2. Ensure the electronic controller has at least 2 memory positions so that you can save your sit and stand heights

I purchased a sit-stand desk in 2014. After much research, the desk I felt was the best quality and features for the money was from the brand [UpDesk](www.myupdesk.com "UpDesk"). They have many different options, so you can choose one that fits your space. Feel free to look around at different options. I found the pricing of UpDesk to be towards the lower end, but there are definitely some options that are a few hundred dollars cheaper. 

## Best Option
There has been some research recently that has stated that the ideal angle to relieve pressure on your spine while sitting is 140  degrees. The problem with sitting at this angle is that you need your work surface and monitor to be at an angle with you so that you don't have to contort our body to see the monitor and interact with your input devices. The only desk that allows you to achieve this position while still maintaining the ability to change positions is the [AltWork](www.altwork.com "AltWork"). 

The ultimate desk setup is definitely the [AltWork](www.altwork.com "AltWork"). AltWork is more than just a desk; it's a workstation. It is a combination of a desk, chair, and monitor mount in a single system that allows you to move from standing to lying flat at 180 degrees and everything in between. It is the first and only workstation at this point that has this type of adjustability. I highly recommend watching [this video](#)  to see it in action so you can understand how it works.

If you are in the San Francisco Bay Area, you can sign up for a free try out session to try it for yourself. 

I have replaced my UpDesk at home with the AltWork station and it has been incredibly awesome. I highly recommend investing in this setup to ensure the best ergonomics. 

